They might get results in the short term, but in the
long term, it will damage the company's reputation. I've
realized that this kind of naive personality is the
reason why they don't get referrals and don't sell. When people lose hope in life or lose their goals, they
suddenly start to leave. Aoki
Sa's Life Management Philosophy: A Story That Will Make You Richer If You Listen to It 100 Times
This time, we'll be talking about sales.
If you have any characteristics of employees who shouldn't be in sales, please let us know.
[Music]
Characteristics of employees who shouldn't be in sales First of all, they're
dishonest. You really shouldn't let someone who can't keep their promises do
sales. After all,
trust and credibility are the most
important assets for a company. So if you let
dishonest people who reduce that trust balance do the work, you'll lose credibility. There are people who are good at
communication but are unreliable, and those kinds of people aren't
suited for sales. Honestly, they might
get results in the short term, but in the long term, it will
damage the company's reputation. First of all, are they honest or
dishonest? Dishonest people are no good. On the other hand, even if it's a sudden
remark, they keep their promises and truly put themselves in the customer's shoes.
People who can stand and do things, people who carry the company on their shoulders,
people who are honest and try to keep their promises, those
kinds of people are suited for sales. That's right, that's right, that's right, I just
thought of this, but there was a guy who didn't get any results for about six months. This was back when I was at
Britannica, and I wondered why he wasn't getting results, so I took him out for yakiniku (Japanese
BBQ). And when you're eating yakiniku like this, normally you'd be considerate and offer the
cooked pieces to your senior, right? But this guy, as soon as the pieces were
cooked, he'd just
grab them all for himself. When I saw that, I knew that
this kind of naive personality was the
reason he couldn't get referrals or make sales. People who lack empathy,
sincerity, and the
human
charm of wanting to make others happy are
not suited for sales. But to put it more bluntly, it's not just that they're not suited for sales, it's that they're in serious trouble.
Those kinds of people will never become wealthy. Wealthy people think about how they can make everyone
happy, like, "Wouldn't it be great if there was
something like this?" or "Wouldn't it be great if there was a service like this?"  At the
heart of our company, we believe that creativity is essential.
People who can create something from scratch, who have that kind of mindset,
become richer. And that
applies to sales, management, everything. Also, things like
dirtiness and smells, those kinds of
human basics. For example, my shoes are always
sparkling clean, I
shower every day and I'm always clean. If you asked me to do sales now, I'd be a
top salesman. I still am a
top salesman. It's really
important. If you stop being stylish, it's no good.
People start to lose hope in life, or they lose their goals, and they quickly fall apart. So, it's the same with sales. Just like
Makoto from Kingdom, who wants to become a great
general, or a top salesman,
people with big ambitions are suited to sales. Those who are not suited are not.
I call it the four earthquakes. The
opposite of the four earthquakes is the four distrusts:
distrust of the company, distrust of the product,
distrust of the job, distrust of oneself. These are not suited to sales.  Having
no confidence is equivalent to having
confidence in oneself, and confidence and conviction are about believing in oneself,
so positive people are better
suited to sales. Negative
people aren't suited to sales. But I don't know, I
think sales is a very valuable job. When you compare saying "My
husband is a doctor" to saying "My
husband is a salesman," why do so
many people think that being a doctor is superior? I think it's important to have a
sense of professionalism that makes you think that saying "My husband is a salesman" is superior. It's not about
school background
or anything like that, it's a world of preconceived notions. So,
people with a positive personality, who are bright and optimistic, are better suited, and the
opposite would be unsuitable. That's about it.
Thank you. Is it possible to become better suited to
sales?
[Music]
Hmm, I wonder. 80% of expenses are from sales, so to be honest, I don't think it will
change unless something drastic happens.
I've already nurtured a huge number of members,
since my time at Britannica. It's been a
huge number, so you can see it.
Generally speaking, I've never been scolded. It's about
putting yourself in the other person's shoes and having good judgment. It's about
sensing what would make them happy and acting accordingly. You know, back in my
Britannica days, one of
my users, Mr. Aoki, became the managing director of Azusa Audit Corporation, where I work. When one of our
employees asked what impression he had of President Aoki, he said that he was very good at taking notes and was a
good listener. That's right. The reason is that he's been taking notes
since he was young. He
has a desire to improve, so he's the type of person who would take notes whenever he could learn something from someone. And
somehow, through that kind of relationship, before he
knew it, he was saying yes. It's like he was
struck by a powerful insight. I
certainly
think so. After listening to him talk a lot, I told him that acquiring English
skills is very
important for him, so he should take the first step today.  I just blurted that out, and I
think that's probably it. So that's enough. The
person has talked about various things, a relationship has been built, and a
relationship of trust has been established. So all that's left is that the
valuable product is a
Britannica product, a program that was created in collaboration with Tsuneyoshi University a long time ago, so smart
people
know how high-quality Tsuneyoshi University is, so there are no strange objections. So the
people who raise strange objections are actually people who don't want to study English. They
make all sorts of excuses and reasons why they don't have to do it. That's why from the
beginning I've been looking to see if the other person really wanted to do it and
choosing the market accordingly. In a sense, that's why I
think that kind of intuition is important. In that sense, if you're not naturally intelligent, your
sales performance won't improve. Yeah, I guess being
unintelligent means you don't have to put in
effort, and how should I put it? So
even when fishing, I
think it's more important to find a fishing spot where there are lots of fish. If you put bait there and just go for it, you'll
catch a lot of fish, right?  : If you're in a really dull place and there's only
one fish, no matter how
hard you try, even if you're
100%, it's still only one
fish. So, I
think the secret to selling isn't persuasion, but the market. If you
don't prioritize what's important, in a sense, you'll end up with a
life where you can't escape hardship. Yeah, I think that's what it is. In
that sense, I
think sense is very important in sales.
[music]
Basically, you should
choose people you want to be your sales representatives. If there's
someone you don't want to be your representative, you should
probably avoid them. I think it's about the
person, the overall impression, and making that
judgment is the key point. Yeah, that's what I think. Anyway,
please subscribe to the channel
and please leave comments as well. I've
written a lot of books about selling, so please read them.
Thank you very much.
[music] Oh, I just suddenly
remembered, a long time ago...  A
salesman came to me saying, "No, manager, I ca
n't do this job anymore, there's no future in it, I'm quitting." I asked him
what he did, and he said he didn't want to quit. He said he went around to
various
people on the site and asked them if they wanted to learn English, but they all
splashed water on him and said, "Hey, you're not even
good enough at Japanese, and now you're speaking
English? You're getting in the way of our work, go away!" He got
yelled at, and his self-esteem plummeted, and he lost all motivation. I
told the salesman that he had a bit of a
misunderstanding about sales. He said he was
looking for people dumber than himself, and that's why he was
struggling. He said he needed to
find people who were smarter than him, people who took English for granted, and
approach them. He said that way he did
n't need any extra explanations. He said his way of working was the
complete opposite of what he thought it was. He thought selling was about talking people into things or
persuading them, and he needed to
change that fundamental way of thinking. He said
selling is about helping people solve problems and
supporting them in achieving their desires, and that you have to approach it with a
shared sense of purpose.  I
once said that, and they said, "Oh, really?" I did say that, but that guy wasn't
very smart so he quit. But that's how it is, I guess.
I've never approached people in that way.
After all, the list is a list of siblings and stuff, so I
just talk to them and build
relationships, and they just
say yes on their own, so that's fine.
I used to target flight attendants and the airline market,
but I didn't use my brain. I was
dealing with people who had the ability to pay and recognized the need.